---
published: true
---

## Spotify: One Step Forward, Two Steps Back

So, I was updated to the latest Spotify on the desktop today.

First impressions were positive, with the tweaks to the UI all improving the general experience and I much prefer the white text on a black background. However, once you dig a little deeper to see what's changed under the covers the picture ain't so rosy.

For some reason they've chosen to deprecate the 'Starred' playlist, gone is the ability to star tracks, replaced with 'Your Music'. This at firt glance seems promising with Your Music being split into Songs, Albums and Artists (as well as local files now living here too).

Oh goody! Now you can + (or save) songs, albums or artists separately to the appropriate section in 'Your Music', or so you would think anyway. What actually happens is a little different and seems rather counter-intuitive at best and completely fucking pointless if you ask me.

- save a song and it is added to the songs section, as you would expect
- save an album and it is added to the albums section (as expected), the artist is added to the artists section (fair enough) and _**all the songs on the album are added to the songs section**_ (eh?)
- save an artist??? there appears to be no way to do this

Seriously! All the songs on the album are added to the songs list? WTF!? So these aren't actually separate lists of songs and albums at all, it's some fucked up mish mash of neither or both. 

And to top it off not only can still not search within Your Music but there appears to be no way to mark your list of songs as available offline. Easily the best feature currently available with starred tracks and personally I would say across the whole of spotify.

Can it really be this difficult to organise music?

- give me a list for my favourite songs (which I can make available offline)
- give me a list for favourite albums (each of which can be made available offline)
- give me a list for favourite artists
- give a list for playlists (each of which can be made available offline)
- give me an all encompassing view of my music which I can filter and sort on these categories
- give me the ablility to search with each of these views

Get it sorted Spotify, I'm paying you for this shit!